readme.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1><img width="28" height="28" src="https://pluton.b-cdn.net/logo.png" /> Pluton</h1>
  <h3>Open-Source, Self-Hosted Backup Solution That Puts You in Control</h3>
  <a href="https://github.com/plutonhq/pluton/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/plutonhq/pluton" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github/license/plutonhq/pluton/releases">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/plutonhq/pluton" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/plutonhq/pluton">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/plutonhq/pluton" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github/license/plutonhq/pluton/releases">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/plutonhq/pluton/total" />
  </a>

  <br />
  <br />
  <figure>
    <img src="https://usepluton.com/_astro/pluton-screenshot.CPFk1SrO.png" alt="Pluton Screenshot" />
  </figure>
</div>

## Intro

Pluton is a self-hosted backup management platform that simplifies automated, incremental backups across your storage destinations. Pluton leverages powerful open-source tools - Restic for secure incremental backups and Rclone for versatile cloud storage connectivity - wrapped in an intuitive web interface designed for both beginners and advanced users.

[Website](https://usepluton.com/) &nbsp; | &nbsp; [Documentation](https://docs.usepluton.com/)

### Features

- &nbsp; **Automated backups** with encryption, compression and retention policies powered by Restic
- &nbsp; **Flexible scheduling** For automated backup jobs with fine-grained retention policies
- &nbsp; **End-to-end encryption** Backups are totally encrypted from your local machine to your cloud storage.
- &nbsp; **50+ Storage Support**: Store encrypted data to your favorite cloud storages (powered by rclone).
- &nbsp; **Easy Restore & Download**: Restore or download backed up snapshot data easily with just a few clicks.
- &nbsp; **Event Notifications**: Get email notifications on Backup start, end, completion or failure.
- &nbsp; **Auto Retry Logic**: Automatically retries backups if it fails with customization options.
- &nbsp; **Intuitive UI**: Manage everything from a single, clean interface.
- &nbsp; **Real-time Progress Tracking**: Track progress of your backups real-time.
- &nbsp; **Extensive Logging**: View app and backup logs right from the UI for better debugging.
- &nbsp; **Run Scripts before/after**: Ability to run scripts before and after running backups.

## Installation

To run Pluton, make sure you have Docker and Docker Compose installed on your machine. Then, use the provided `docker-compose.yml` file to run the application.

```yaml
services:
  pluton:
    image: plutonhq/pluton:latest
    container_name: pluton-backup
    restart: unless-stopped

    ports:
      - "${SERVER_PORT:-5173}:${SERVER_PORT:-5173}"

    volumes:
      # Main data volume - contains database, config, logs
      - pluton-data:/data

      # Optional: Mount host directories to backup

      # Example: Make user's documents folders Accessible to Pluton
      # - /home/user/documents:/mnt/documents:ro #linux
      # - /home/user/photos:/mnt/photos:ro #linux
      # - C:/Users/username/Documents:/mnt/documents:ro # Windows
      # - C:/Users/username/Pictures:/mnt/photos:ro # Windows

      # Example: Make a Docker volume (named 'wp-data') Accessible to Pluton
      # - /var/lib/docker/volumes/wp-data/_data:/mnt/wordpress:ro
      # - C:/ProgramData/docker/volumes/wp-data/_data:/mnt/wordpress:ro  # Windows

    environment:
      # ===== REQUIRED: Security & Authentication =====
      # Generate secure random strings (min 12 characters each)
      ENCRYPTION_KEY: ${ENCRYPTION_KEY} # Encryption key for restic/rclone Snapshot encryption
      USER_NAME: ${USER_NAME} # Admin username for login
      USER_PASSWORD: ${USER_PASSWORD} # Admin password for login

      # ===== Application Settings =====
      APP_TITLE: ${APP_TITLE:-Pluton}
      APP_URL: ${APP_URL:-http://localhost:5173}
      SERVER_PORT: ${SERVER_PORT:-5173}
      MAX_CONCURRENT_BACKUPS: ${MAX_CONCURRENT_BACKUPS:-2}
      SESSION_DURATION: ${SESSION_DURATION:-7} # How long frontend login Session lasts in Days

      # ===== User Interface Security Settings =====
      ALLOW_CUSTOM_RESTORE_PATH: ${ALLOW_CUSTOM_RESTORE_PATH:-true}
      ALLOW_FILE_BROWSER: ${ALLOW_FILE_BROWSER:-true}
      DISABLE_EVENT_SCRIPTS: ${DISABLE_EVENT_SCRIPTS:-false}

      # ===== Docker-specific (do not change) =====
      NODE_ENV: production
      IS_DOCKER: "true"

volumes:
  pluton-data:
    driver: local
```

Then create an `.env` file that contains the required environment variables:

```env
ENCRYPTION_KEY=s0eK1r12973fS501SW
USER_NAME=admin
USER_PASSWORD=0123456789

# Optional - override defaults
SERVER_PORT=7173
```

And finally, run:

```
docker compose up -d
```

## Acknowledgements

Pluton is built on the shoulders of giants. We would like to thank the creators and contributors of the following projects:

- [Restic](https://restic.net/) (BSD 2-Clause License): For providing the robust and secure backup foundation.
- [Rclone](https://rclone.org/) (MIT License): For enabling seamless connectivity to a vast array of cloud storage providers.

Commit message:

chore: update readme with installation instruction

readme.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1><img width="28" height="28" src="https://pluton.b-cdn.net/logo.png" /> Pluton</h1>
  <h3>Open-Source, Self-Hosted Backup Solution That Puts You in Control</h3>
  <a href="https://github.com/plutonhq/pluton/blob/main/LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/plutonhq/pluton" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github/license/plutonhq/pluton/releases">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/plutonhq/pluton" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://hub.docker.com/r/plutonhq/pluton">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/plutonhq/pluton" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github/license/plutonhq/pluton/releases">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/plutonhq/pluton/total" />
  </a>

  <br />
  <br />
  <figure>
    <img src="https://usepluton.com/_astro/pluton-screenshot.CPFk1SrO.png" alt="Pluton Screenshot" />
  </figure>
</div>

## Intro

Pluton is a self-hosted backup management platform that simplifies automated, incremental backups across your storage destinations. Pluton leverages powerful open-source tools - Restic for secure incremental backups and Rclone for versatile cloud storage connectivity - wrapped in an intuitive web interface designed for both beginners and advanced users.

[Website](https://usepluton.com/) &nbsp; | &nbsp; [Documentation](https://docs.usepluton.com/)

### Features

- &nbsp; **Automated backups** with encryption, compression and retention policies powered by Restic
- &nbsp; **Flexible scheduling** For automated backup jobs with fine-grained retention policies
- &nbsp; **End-to-end encryption** Backups are totally encrypted from your local machine to your cloud storage.
- &nbsp; **50+ Storage Support**: Store encrypted data to your favorite cloud storages (powered by rclone).
- &nbsp; **Easy Restore & Download**: Restore or download backed up snapshot data easily with just a few clicks.
- &nbsp; **Event Notifications**: Get email notifications on Backup start, end, completion or failure.
- &nbsp; **Auto Retry Logic**: Automatically retries backups if it fails with customization options.
- &nbsp; **Intuitive UI**: Manage everything from a single, clean interface.
- &nbsp; **Real-time Progress Tracking**: Track progress of your backups real-time.
- &nbsp; **Extensive Logging**: View app and backup logs right from the UI for better debugging.
- &nbsp; **Run Scripts before/after**: Ability to run scripts before and after running backups.
-

# Installation

## Desktop Installation

Pluton can be installed on Windows and Linux Desktop variants. You can download the installers from the [Website](https://usepluton.com/download) page.

## Docker Installation

To run Pluton, make sure you have Docker and Docker Compose installed on your machine. Then, use the provided `docker-compose.yml` file to run the application.

```yaml
services:
  pluton:
    image: plutonhq/pluton:latest
    container_name: pluton-backup
    restart: unless-stopped

    ports:
      - "${SERVER_PORT:-5173}:${SERVER_PORT:-5173}"

    volumes:
      # Main data volume - contains database, config, logs
      - pluton-data:/data

      # Optional: Mount host directories to backup

      # Example: Make user's documents folders Accessible to Pluton
      # - /home/user/documents:/mnt/documents:ro #linux
      # - /home/user/photos:/mnt/photos:ro #linux
      # - C:/Users/username/Documents:/mnt/documents:ro # Windows
      # - C:/Users/username/Pictures:/mnt/photos:ro # Windows

      # Example: Make a Docker volume (named 'wp-data') Accessible to Pluton
      # - /var/lib/docker/volumes/wp-data/_data:/mnt/wordpress:ro
      # - C:/ProgramData/docker/volumes/wp-data/_data:/mnt/wordpress:ro  # Windows

    environment:
      # ===== REQUIRED: Security & Authentication =====
      # Generate secure random strings (min 12 characters each)
      ENCRYPTION_KEY: ${ENCRYPTION_KEY} # Encryption key for restic/rclone Snapshot encryption
      USER_NAME: ${USER_NAME} # Admin username for login
      USER_PASSWORD: ${USER_PASSWORD} # Admin password for login

      # ===== Application Settings =====
      APP_TITLE: ${APP_TITLE:-Pluton}
      APP_URL: ${APP_URL:-http://localhost:5173}
      SERVER_PORT: ${SERVER_PORT:-5173}
      MAX_CONCURRENT_BACKUPS: ${MAX_CONCURRENT_BACKUPS:-2}
      SESSION_DURATION: ${SESSION_DURATION:-7} # How long frontend login Session lasts in Days

      # ===== User Interface Security Settings =====
      ALLOW_CUSTOM_RESTORE_PATH: ${ALLOW_CUSTOM_RESTORE_PATH:-true}
      ALLOW_FILE_BROWSER: ${ALLOW_FILE_BROWSER:-true}
      DISABLE_EVENT_SCRIPTS: ${DISABLE_EVENT_SCRIPTS:-false}

      # ===== Docker-specific (do not change) =====
      NODE_ENV: production
      IS_DOCKER: "true"

volumes:
  pluton-data:
    driver: local
```

Then create an `.env` file that contains the required environment variables:

```env
ENCRYPTION_KEY=s0eK1r12973fS501SW
USER_NAME=admin
USER_PASSWORD=0123456789

# Optional - override defaults
SERVER_PORT=7173
```

And finally, run:

```
docker compose up -d
```

## Installing on Linux Servers

Pluton can be installed on headless Linux servers. Follow the installation [instruction](https://docs.usepluton.com/docs/getting-started/install-pluton-linux-server/) to get started.

---

## Acknowledgements

Pluton is built on the shoulders of giants. We would like to thank the creators and contributors of the following projects:

- [Restic](https://restic.net/) (BSD 2-Clause License): For providing the robust and secure backup foundation.
- [Rclone](https://rclone.org/) (MIT License): For enabling seamless connectivity to a vast array of cloud storage providers.
